.TH KDE-FAN-CONTROL-DAEMON 8 "2026-04-14" "kde-fan-control 1.0.2" "System Daemon"
.SH NAME
kde-fan-control-daemon \- privileged fan control daemon for KDE Fan Control
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kde-fan-control-daemon
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B kde-fan-control-daemon
is the root-privileged system daemon that manages per-fan PID
control using Linux hwmon sysfs interfaces. It exposes three
DBus interfaces on the system bus:
.IP \(bu 4
.B org.kde.FanControl.Inventory
\(em hardware discovery and naming
.IP \(bu 4
.B org.kde.FanControl.Lifecycle
\(em draft/applied configuration management
.IP \(bu 4
.B org.kde.FanControl.Control
\(em runtime control state and auto-tune
.PP
The daemon is designed to run as a systemd service
(\fBType=notify\fR) and sends readiness and watchdog
notifications. On exit or crash, the fallback helper
(\fBkde-fan-control-fallback\fR) drives all owned fans to
PWM 255 (maximum speed) as a safety measure.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-\-root " " \fIPATH\fR
Override the sysfs root path (default: \fI/sys\fR).
Used for testing with fake sysfs trees.
.TP
.B \-\-session-bus
Connect to the session bus instead of the system bus.
For development only; production use targets the system bus.
.SH SIGNALS
The daemon handles SIGTERM for graceful shutdown and
SIGINT for interactive termination. On either signal,
the fallback helper runs to ensure fans are driven to
safe maximum output.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /var/lib/kde-fan-control/config.toml
Daemon-owned persistent configuration.
.TP
.I /usr/share/dbus-1/system.d/org.kde.FanControl.conf
DBus system bus policy.
.TP
.I /usr/share/dbus-1/system-services/org.kde.FanControl.service
DBus system bus activation.
.TP
.I /usr/share/polkit-1/actions/org.kde.fancontrol.policy
Polkit authorization policy.
.TP
.I /usr/lib/systemd/system/kde-fan-control-daemon.service
Systemd service unit.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR kde-fan-control (1),
.BR kde-fan-control-gui (1),
.BR systemd.service (5)
