.TH KDE-FAN-CONTROL 1 "2026-04-13" "kde-fan-control 1.0.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
kde-fan-control \- CLI client for KDE Fan Control daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kde-fan-control
\fICOMMAND\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B kde-fan-control
is the command-line interface for the KDE Fan Control daemon.
It communicates with the daemon over DBus to inspect hardware,
manage fan enrollment, configure PID control profiles, and
monitor runtime state.
.PP
The daemon must be running on the system bus for most commands
to succeed. Use \fB--direct\fR with \fBinventory\fR to scan
hardware without the daemon.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B inventory
List discovered hardware sensors and fan channels.
Supports \fB--direct\fR for standalone scanning and
\fB--root\fR for pointing at a fake sysfs tree.
.TP
.B rename
Set a friendly name for a sensor or fan.
.TP
.B unname
Remove a friendly name from a sensor or fan.
.TP
.B draft
Show the current draft configuration.
.TP
.B applied
Show the current applied configuration.
.TP
.B degraded
Show the current degraded-state summary.
.TP
.B events
Show recent lifecycle events.
.TP
.B enroll
Stage a fan enrollment change in the draft configuration.
.TP
.B unenroll
Remove a fan from the draft configuration.
.TP
.B discard
Discard the entire draft configuration.
.TP
.B validate
Validate the current draft without applying it.
.TP
.B apply
Apply the current draft configuration. Requires root authorization.
.TP
.B state
Show the current runtime state (managed, degraded, fallback, unmanaged).
.TP
.B control
Stage PID control profile changes in the draft configuration.
.TP
.B auto-tune
Start, inspect, or accept auto-tune proposals.
.TP
.B auth
Check authorization for privileged operations. Triggers polkit auth if available.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B RUST_LOG
Set tracing filter (e.g., \fBkde_fan_control=debug\fR).
.TP
.B DBUS_SESSION_BUS_ADDRESS
Used automatically when the system bus is unavailable to connect
to the session bus for development.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /var/lib/kde-fan-control/config.toml
Daemon-owned persistent configuration.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR kde-fan-control-daemon (8),
.BR kde-fan-control-gui (1)